# Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters

**Difficulty:** Medium  
**Pattern:** Sliding Window  
**Language:** cpp  
**LeetCode:** https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/description/

---

## Intuition
In this problem String is given and it consist of english letters, digits, symbols and digits , i've to find the longest substring without repeating characters ,i can use set  to avoid duplication and sliding window for keep[ing track on the length of the substring

---

## Approach
I use a set to maintain unique characters and two pointers to represent a sliding window.

Both pointers start at the beginning of the string. The right pointer i expands the window.

If the current character already exists in the set, the window becomes invalid, so I shrink it from the left using pointer j, removing characters from the set until the substring is valid again.

After each iteration, I update the maximum window length.

Since each character is inserted and removed at most once, the time complexity is O(n).

---

## Example Walkthrough
i=0, j=0 → set={a}           max=1
i=1, j=0 → set={a,b}         max=2
i=2      → 'b' duplicate
         → remove 'a' (j=1), remove 'b' (j=2)
         → set={b}
i=3      → set={b,c}         max=2
i=4      → set={b,c,a}       max=3
i=5      → 'b' duplicate
         → remove 'b' (j=3)
         → set={c,a,b}       max=3
i=6      → 'a' duplicate
         → remove 'c' (j=4), remove 'a' (j=5)
         → set={b,a}         max=3

---

## Time Complexity
o(n)

---

## Space Complexity
The set stores only unique characters. Since the character set is limited (ASCII), the space used is O(1).

---

## Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int lengthOfLongestSubstring(string s) {
        int n=s.size();
        unordered_set<char>st;
        int j=0,maximum=0;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++)
        {
            while(st.count(s[i]))
            {
                st.erase(s[j]);
                j++;
            }
            st.insert(s[i]);
            maximum=max(maximum,i-j+1);
        }
        return maximum;
        
    }
};
```